# Reflection

The research trip helped me to understand new connections and activate my senses. At the beginning, I had planned to experiment with everything as analog as possible to create distance from my everyday life on the laptop. Of course, the planned location, workshops and talks worked very well, which I really appreciated. 

The workshops on plants, trees and their healing properties were very inspiring for me. Especially the symbiosis in which different living beings work together and balance out each other. The hike was an absolute highlight for me. I was able to connect with nature and understand new connections and at the same time was shocked at how visible the impact of global warming is. 

I had the urge to switch off everything and perceive my surroundings with my senses and document them with simple tools. In doing so, I realized that visual and auditory can actually be digitally mapped well to create an immersive experience, but two senses are usually missing. The smell during the hike and the feel of the elements clearly influenced my experience. In the ceramics workshop, I replicated patterns with collected samples on ceramic plates and cooked a candle from the resin of pine trees. in combination with the documented images, I was able to create a kind of analog portal into the environment. The idea behind it was to create a space for discussion in which one can perceive the overall picture of the environment. 

Of course, I perceived the theme of borders this week partly in the form of national borders, but in my documentation I mainly perceived the borders of various small elements.